W-12559775 config HA (multiple replicas, horizontal scaling) duke (#259)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.4/modules/ROOT/pages/flex-gateway-k8-high-availability.adoc

ingress-5b7474b8f6    2         2         2       70s
----

[[autoscale]]
== Configure Autoscaling

Horizontal Pod autoscaling generates Flex Gateway replicas automatically based on CPU, memory, and other target and behavioral settings. 

=== Autoscaling Parameters

To use autoscaling, enable Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA), and configure other Helm chart settings to define autoscaling . Autoscaling parameters in the Helm chart follow.

[%header,cols="1,2a"]
|===
| Parameter | Description
| `autoscaling.enabled` | Boolean that indicates whether the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) is enabled. Defaults to `false`.
| `autoscaling.minReplicas` | The minimum number of replicas that the HPA scaler is allowed to create. Defaults to `2`.
| `autoscaling.maxReplicas` | The maximum number of replicas that the HPA scaler is allowed to create. Defaults to `11`.
| `autoscaling.targetCPUUtilizationPercentage` | A resource metric that sets the average CPU usage percentage of all deployed Pods. Defaults to `50`.
| `autoscaling.targetMemoryUtilizationPercentage` | A string representing the average memory usage percentage of all deployed Pods. Defaults to `nil`.

> | `autoscaling.extraMetrics` | A list of custom Pod configuration metrics that enables you to collect and monitor application-specific metric data. Defaults to `[]`. Define the metrics with nested parameters, for example:

Author: from Israel, get data with commands like this:
kubectl get --raw /apis/metrics.k8s.io/v1beta1/nodes/<NODE_NAME>
kubectl get --raw /apis/metrics.k8s.io/v1beta1/namespaces/<NAMESPACE>/pods/<POD_NAME>

= Add Flex Gateway Replicas to a Namespace
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

For high availability (HA) environments, horizontal scaling distributes load across multiple Flex Gateway instances. By default, the Helm chart for Flex Gateway is configured with one replica. To release more Flex Gateway replicas into a namespace, provide one of the following configurations:

* <<replica-count, Set a replica count>>: Set a fixed number of Flex Gateway replicas to create.
* <<autoscale, Configure autoscaling>>: Generate replicas automatically based on CPU, memory, and other settings. 

//how to view helm chart defaults:
include::partial$reference-k8-general.adoc[tags=flex-k8-helm-chart-info]

== Before You Begin

Ensure that the following prerequisites are in place:

* A Flex Gateway deployment or a registered Flex Gateway instance (gateway)
+
For gateway registration and deployment processes, see xref:flex-gateway-set-up.adoc[] or xref:flex-gateway-k8-getting-started.adoc[]. 

* A Kubernetes cluster for your Flex Gateway deployment

[[replica-count]]
== Set a Replica Count

> Configure and verify the number of replicas that you require. The steps to take depend on whether a Helm chart is installed. 

Author: changed to "to take" based on review

> Configure and verify the number of replicas that you require. The steps to follow depend on whether a Helm chart is installed. 

Reviewer: require -> need?

I read "The steps to follow" as equal to "The following steps" not "The steps to take".

Reviewer: One idea...
. Depending on your configuration, run the following command:
** If a Helm chart is installed:
** If a Helm chart is not installed:

Author: I changed it to "The steps to take," which sounds better to me. Re the alternative, if they are installing for the first time, they don't have a config yet, so can't really say "Depending on your configuration."

Reviewer: The reason I suggest the bullet list approach is that steps imply linear (do this, then this) and bullets imply options. (At least, to me.)

Author: Yeah, I started that way, but then I decided that the space between the bullets made it less easy to use. There were some other issues that I don't remember off the top of my head right now. But I'm usually thinking about stuff like this when I write docs.

> Configure and verify the number of replicas that you require. The steps to follow depend on whether a Helm chart is installed. 

Author: ```suggestion
Configure and verify the number of replicas that you require. The steps to take depend on whether a Helm chart is installed. 
```

+
.Syntax:
----
help -n <namespace> upgrade \
<release-name> <helm-repository-name>/<helm-chart-name> \
--reuse-values \
--set replicaCount=<number of replicas>
----
+
.Example:
[source,helm]
----
helm -n gateway upgrade \
ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway \
--reuse-values \
--set replicaCount=2
----
+
When successful, the command prints output similar to this example: 
+
----
Release "ingress" has been upgraded. Happy Helming!
NAME: ingress
LAST DEPLOYED: Mon Apr 17 15:00:09 2023
NAMESPACE: gateway
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 27
TEST SUITE: None
----

. If the Helm chart is not installed, run the following command:
+
.Syntax:
----
helm -n <namespace> \
upgrade -i --create-namespace \
<release-name> <helm-repository-name>/<helm-chart-name> \
--set-file registration.content=<registration file> \
--set replicaCount=<number of replicas>
----
+
.Example:
[source,helm]
----
helm -n gateway \
upgrade -i --create-namespace \
ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway \
--set-file registration.content=registration.yaml \
--set replicaCount=2
----
+
When successful, the command prints output similar to this example: 
+
----
Release "ingress" does not exist. Installing it now.

> NAME: ingress2

Reviewer 2: according to command the correct output name is ingress

> NAME: ingress2

Author: ```suggestion
NAME: ingress
```

LAST DEPLOYED: Mon Apr 17 15:32:50 2023
NAMESPACE: gateway
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
----

. Verify creation of the replicas by running the following command:
+
.Syntax:
----
kubectl get rs -n <namespace>
----
+
.Example:
----
kubectl get rs -n gateway
----
+
When successful, the command prints output similar to this example: 
+
----
NAME                  DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
ingress-5b7474b8f6    2         2         2       70s
----

[[autoscale]]
== Configure Autoscaling

> Horizontal Pod autoscaling generates Flex Gateway replicas automatically based on CPU, memory, and other target and behavioral settings. 

Author: ```suggestion
Horizontal Pod autoscaling generates Flex Gateway replicas automatically based on CPU, memory, and other target and behavioral settings. For descriptions of these settings, see <<autoscaling-parameters>>. 
```

[[autoscaling-config]]
=== Update Your Helm Chart with an Autoscaling Configuration

> Update your Helm chart with autoscaling parameters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update your Helm chart with autoscaling parameters:
```

Reviewer: (or just remove the intro since it's nearly the same as the title)

. Create a YAML file with your autoscaling configuration, modifying the settings to meet your requirements.
+
.Example:
[source,yaml]
----
autoscaling:
  enabled: true
  minReplicas: 2
  maxReplicas: 11
  targetCPUUtilizationPercentage: 50
  targetMemoryUtilizationPercentage: 50
  extraMetrics:
  - type: Resource
    resource:
      name: cpu
      target:
        type: Utilization
        averageUtilization: 50
  behavior:
    scaleDown:
      selectPolicy: Min
      stabilizationWindowSeconds: 100
      policies:
      - type: Percent
        value: 70
        periodSeconds: 30
    scaleUp:
      selectPolicy: Max
      stabilizationWindowSeconds: 100 
      policies:
      - type: Percent
        value: 70
        periodSeconds: 30
----

> . If a Helm chart for your namespace is installed, run the following command to apply your autoscaling configuration:

Reviewer: same suggestion as before.

Author: see comment on convo page about "configuration'

. If a Helm chart for your namespace is installed, run the following command to apply your autoscaling configuration:
+
.Syntax:
----
help -n <namespace> upgrade \
<release-name> <helm-repository-name>/<helm-chart-name> \
--reuse-values \
-f <your-autoscaling-configuration-yaml>
----
+
.Example:
[source,helm]
----
helm -n gateway upgrade \
ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway \
--reuse-values \
-f autoscaling.yaml
----
+
When successful, the command prints output similar to this example: 
+
----

> LAST DEPLOYED: Tue Apr 18 15:46:38 2023

Author: ```suggestion
Release "ingress" has been upgraded. Happy Helming!
NAME: ingress
LAST DEPLOYED: Tue Apr 18 15:46:38 2023
```

> LAST DEPLOYED: Tue Apr 18 15:46:38 2023

Reviewer 2: add output `NAME: ingress` field

Author: done

TEST SUITE: None
----

. If the Helm chart is not installed, run the following command to apply the your autoscaling configuration:
+
.Syntax:
----
helm -n <namespace> \
upgrade -i --create-namespace \
<release-name> <helm-repository-name>/<helm-chart-name> \
--set-file registration.content=<registration file> \
-f <your-autoscaling-configuration-yaml>
----
+
.Example:
[source,helm]
----
helm -n gateway \
upgrade -i --create-namespace \
ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway \
--set-file registration.content=registration.yaml \
-f autoscaling.yaml
----
+
When successful, the command prints output similar to this example: 
+
----
NAME: ingress
LAST DEPLOYED: Tue Apr 18 15:50:29 2023
NAMESPACE: gateway
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
----

. Verify your autoscaling configuration by running the following command:
+
.Syntax:
[source, kubectl]
----
kubectl get hpa -n <namespace>
----
+
.Example:
[source, kubectl]
----
kubectl get hpa -n gateway
----
+
The command prints output similar to this example: 
+
----
NAME     REFERENCE           TARGETS          MINPODS  MAXPODS  REPLICAS  AGE
ingress  Deployment/ingress  66%/50%, 5%/50%  2        11       2         59s
----

> //TODO: TIME PERMITTING, IT WOULD BE GOOD TO ADD SOME TROUBLESHOOTING INFO

Author: editors: don't worry about this and any other todos on this beta doc

[[autoscaling-parameters]]
=== Autoscaling Parameters

> To use autoscaling, enable Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA), and configure other Helm chart settings to define autoscaling . Autoscaling parameters in the Helm chart follow.

Author: ```suggestion
To use autoscaling, enable Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA), and configure other Helm chart settings to define autoscaling behavior. Autoscaling parameters in the Helm chart follow.
```

> To use autoscaling, enable Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA), and configure other Helm chart settings to define autoscaling behavior. Autoscaling parameters in the Helm chart follow.

Reviewer: Suggest removing second sentence and/or adding a title to the table "Autoscaling Parameters" or add "Autoscaling to the Parameter column title.

Author: done

> To use autoscaling, enable Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA), and configure other Helm chart settings to define autoscaling behavior. Autoscaling parameters in the Helm chart follow.

Author: ```suggestion
To use autoscaling, enable Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA), and configure other Helm chart settings to define autoscaling behavior.
```

[%header,cols="1a,2a"]
|===
| Parameter | Description

> | `autoscaling.enabled` | Boolean that indicates whether the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler (HPA) is enabled. Defaults to `false`.

Reviewer: You could have a Default Value column and put the default values there.

Author: I had that, but some cells would be empty. It's not easy to specify defaults for those. Can't say "none" with confidence. The workaround is to omit that column.

| `autoscaling.minReplicas` | The minimum number of replicas that the HPA scaler is allowed to create. Defaults to `2`.
| `autoscaling.maxReplicas` | The maximum number of replicas that the HPA scaler is allowed to create. Defaults to `11`.
| `autoscaling.targetCPUUtilizationPercentage` | A resource metric that sets the average CPU usage percentage of all deployed Pods. Defaults to `50`.
| `autoscaling.targetMemoryUtilizationPercentage` | A string representing the average memory usage percentage of all deployed Pods. Defaults to `nil`.

> | `autoscaling.extraMetrics` | A list of custom Pod configuration metrics that enables you to collect and monitor application-specific metric data. Defaults to `[]`. Define the metrics with nested parameters, for example:

Reviewer: Does the list enable you or the metrics? If list, it's fine. If metrics, "enable".

Author: Hmm, the list (as in a YAML array/list) of settings is applied to the Pod, and if the Pod runs with those settings, then you'll be able to get the data. Let me try to rework it a bit.

Author: revised

> | `autoscaling.extraMetrics` | A list of custom Pod configuration metrics that enables you to collect and monitor application-specific metric data. Defaults to `[]`. Define the metrics with nested parameters, for example:

Author: ```suggestion
| `autoscaling.extraMetrics` | A list of custom Pod configuration metrics. When a Pod runs with these settings, you can collect and monitor application-specific metric data. Defaults to `[]`. Define the metrics with nested parameters, for example:
```

> ----

Reviewer: This is a lot of stuff to have in the middle of the table. Suggest adding a small section below and linking to it from the table.

Author: An issue is that there's nothing more I can say about those settings, so I think the context here gives those settings more meaning.

Author: I'm hoping the field will give me more to say about those settings though, and then I will probably turn them into bullets with descriptions.

extraMetrics:
- type: Resource
  resource:
    name: cpu
    target:
      type: Utilization
      averageUtilization: 50
----

You can retrieve metrics data with the following commands:

----
kubectl get --raw /apis/metrics.k8s.io/v1beta1/nodes/<node-name>

kubectl get --raw /apis/metrics.k8s.io/v1beta1/namespaces/<namespace>/pods/<pod-name>
----
| `autoscaling.behavior` | A setting that supports the `HorizontalPodAutoscaler` (HPA) object in Kubernetes. HPA settings control autoscaling behavior, such as the number of application resources based on the rate of change to the workload. 
| `autoscaling.behavior.scaleUp`, `autoscaling.behavior.scaleDown` | Settings for autoscaling behavior when the HPA scaler increases (`scaleUp`) or decreases (`scaleDown`) the number of replicas. Define scaling behavior with nested parameters: 

> * `selectPolicy`: Setting that determines when to scale Pods when a metric of configured resources indicates that scaling is require, which can contain different numbers of replicas. Valid values are `Disabled`, `Min`, and `Max`. Defaults to `Max`. The `Min` and `Max` values indicate whether to scale Pods with the lowest (`Min`) or highest (`Max`) number of replicas.

Author: this one is awkward. I need to reword... :(

Author: done

> * `selectPolicy`: Setting that determines when to scale Pods when a metric of configured resources indicates that scaling is require, which can contain different numbers of replicas. Valid values are `Disabled`, `Min`, and `Max`. Defaults to `Max`. The `Min` and `Max` values indicate whether to scale Pods with the lowest (`Min`) or highest (`Max`) number of replicas.

Author: ```suggestion
* `selectPolicy`: If a metric of configured resources indicates that scaling is require, this setting determines when to scale Pods. This setting is necessary because Pods can contain different numbers of replicas. Valid values are `Disabled`, `Min`, and `Max`. Defaults to `Max`. The `Min` and `Max` values indicate whether to scale Pods with the lowest (`Min`) or highest (`Max`) number of replicas.
```

> * `selectPolicy`: Setting that determines when to scale Pods when a metric of configured resources indicates that scaling is require, which can contain different numbers of replicas. Valid values are `Disabled`, `Min`, and `Max`. Defaults to `Max`. The `Min` and `Max` values indicate whether to scale Pods with the lowest (`Min`) or highest (`Max`) number of replicas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `selectPolicy`: Setting that determines when to scale Pods when a metric of configured resources indicates that scaling is required, which can contain different numbers of replicas. Valid values are `Disabled`, `Min`, and `Max`. Defaults to `Max`. The `Min` and `Max` values indicate whether to scale Pods with the lowest (`Min`) or highest (`Max`) number of replicas.
```

Reviewer: The first sentence is a little hard to follow.

Author: I broke up that sentence. Hoping it's more easy to follow now.

> * `selectPolicy`: If a metric of configured resources indicates that scaling is require, this setting determines when to scale Pods. This setting is necessary because Pods can contain different numbers of replicas. Valid values are `Disabled`, `Min`, and `Max`. Defaults to `Max`. The `Min` and `Max` values indicate whether to scale Pods with the lowest (`Min`) or highest (`Max`) number of replicas.

Author: ```suggestion
* `selectPolicy`: If a metric of configured resources indicates that scaling is required, this setting determines when to scale Pods. This setting is necessary because Pods can contain different numbers of replicas. Valid values are `Disabled`, `Min`, and `Max`. Defaults to `Max`. The `Min` and `Max` values indicate whether to scale Pods with the lowest (`Min`) or highest (`Max`) number of replicas.
```

--set replicaCount=<number of replicas>
----
+
.Example:
[source,helm]
----
helm -n gateway \
upgrade -i --create-namespace \
ingress flex-gateway/flex-gateway \
--set-file registration.content=registration.yaml \
--set replicaCount=2
----
+
When successful, the command prints output similar to this example: 
+
----
Release "ingress" does not exist. Installing it now.
NAME: ingress
LAST DEPLOYED: Mon Apr 17 15:32:50 2023
NAMESPACE: gateway
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
----

. Verify creation of the replicas by running the following command:
+
.Syntax:
----
kubectl get rs -n <namespace>
----
+
.Example:
----
kubectl get rs -n gateway
----
+
When successful, the command prints output similar to this example: 
+
----
NAME                  DESIRED   CURRENT   READY   AGE
ingress-5b7474b8f6    2         2         2       70s
----

[[autoscale]]
== Configure Autoscaling

Horizontal Pod autoscaling generates Flex Gateway replicas automatically based on CPU, memory, and other target and behavioral settings. 

[[autoscaling-config]]
=== Update Your Helm Chart with an Autoscaling Configuration

Update your Helm chart with autoscaling parameters. 

> . Create a YAML file with your autoscaling configuration, modifying the example settings you require.

Author: ```suggestion
. Create a YAML file with your autoscaling configuration, modifying the settings to meet your requirements.
```

+
.Example:
[source,yaml]
----
autoscaling:
  enabled: true
  minReplicas: 2
  maxReplicas: 11
  targetCPUUtilizationPercentage: 50
  targetMemoryUtilizationPercentage: 50
  extraMetrics:
  - type: Resource
    resource:
      name: cpu
      target:
        type: Utilization
        averageUtilization: 50
  behavior:
    scaleDown:
      selectPolicy: Min
      stabilizationWindowSeconds: 100
      policies:
      - type: Percent
        value: 70
        periodSeconds: 30
    scaleUp:
      selectPolicy: Max
      stabilizationWindowSeconds: 100 
      policies:
      - type: Percent
        value: 70
        periodSeconds: 30
----

> +
> For descriptions of these settings, see <<autoscaling-parameters>>. 

Author: ```suggestion
```
